# Farm Irrigation Management System

# What does the project do?

The Farm Irrigation Management System is a web application designed to manage agricultural irrigation systems. It uses the Flask framework to maintain application logic and SQLAlchemy for interacting with the PostgreSQL database. The application allows users to define cultivation zones, schedule irrigations, and record real-time irrigation events. Additionally, it integrates with the Wiseconn service to fetch and update data in real time, ensuring that irrigation operations are accurate and efficient.

# Why is the project useful?

This project is useful for several reasons:

Efficiency in irrigation management: It allows farmers to schedule and monitor irrigations efficiently, ensuring that each cultivation zone receives the appropriate amount of water.

Resource savings: By optimizing water use, the system helps to reduce waste and promotes the sustainable use of water resources.

Automation and precision: Integration with Wiseconn and the use of APScheduler for scheduling automatic tasks ensure that operations are performed precisely and without constant manual intervention.

Detailed records: It maintains detailed records of all irrigation operations, allowing users to continuously analyze and improve their irrigation strategies.

The application is an agricultural irrigation management solution that combines various technologies to provide efficient management of cultivation zones and their irrigation needs. It uses a clean and well-defined architecture with separate modules for different responsibilities, facilitating scalability and maintenance.

# Ubibot Integration

The Farm Irrigation Management System also integrates with the Ubibot API to further enhance the precision and efficiency of irrigation management. Ubibot provides real-time environmental data that can be used to make more informed irrigation decisions. This includes data from sensors monitoring temperature, ambient temperature, radiation, humidity, ambient humidity, soil conductivity, and more.


# Who maintains and contributes to the project?
The project is maintained and developed by the following contributors:

Bedomax
Heimdallgg
GestionD
The contributors work together to ensure that the system is robust, scalable, and user-friendly, addressing the needs of users and continuously improving its functionalities.

## Table of Contents
1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Usage](#usage)
3. [Encrypt](#encrypt)


## Installation
Step-by-step instructions on how to install and configure the project.
```bash
"
pip install -r requirements.txt
"
# Usage

"python run.py" or "python task_scheduler.py" if you want to hace an execution schedule.


# Encrypt

## Step 1, Install the necessary Dependency
pip install python-dotenv cryptography

## Step 2, Generate the encryption key, this is generated by default in the same folder as this script.
from cryptography.fernet import Fernet

key = Fernet.generate_key()
with open("secret.key", "wb") as key_file:
    key_file.write(key)

## Step 3, Encryption script for the variables used.
from cryptography.fernet import Fernet
with open("secret.key", "rb") as key_file:
    key = key_file.read()
cipher_suite = Fernet(key)
variables = {
    "API_KEY": "this slot is four APIKEY",
    "DATABASE_URL": "this is for your databaseURL",
    "SECRET_KEY": "this is for your secret key"
}

encrypted_variables = {var: cipher_suite.encrypt(val.encode()).decode() for var, val in variables.items()}

with open(".env", "w") as f:
    for var, val in encrypted_variables.items():
        f.write(f"{var}={val}\n")
 
## Step 4, decryption in Flask application.
from cryptography.fernet import Fernet
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os

load_dotenv()
with open("secret.key", "rb") as key_file:
    key = key_file.read()
cipher_suite = Fernet(key)

api_key = cipher_suite.decrypt(os.getenv("API_KEY").encode()).decode()
database_url = cipher_suite.decrypt(os.getenv("DATABASE_URL").encode()).decode()
secret_key = cipher_suite.decrypt(os.getenv("SECRET_KEY").encode()).decode()

